README.md, before:

# AntFTP

AntFTP is an FTP server skeleton designed to bridge FTP commands to **AntTP** via gRPC and Protobuf. It allows users to access AntTP archives using standard FTP clients.

## Features

- **AntTP Integration**: Directly interacts with AntTP archives using gRPC.
- **Pointer Support**: Can resolve archive addresses via AntTP pointers.
- **Rclone Compatibility**: Works seamlessly with `rclone` to provide a FUSE mount over FTP.

## Design

AntFTP acts as a proxy between the FTP protocol and the AntTP gRPC interface. It uses `libunftp` as the core FTP engine and implements a custom storage backend (`unftp-sbe-anttp`) that translates file operations into gRPC calls to an AntTP node.

```mermaid
graph LR
    Client[FTP Client] -- FTP --> AntFTP
    AntFTP -- gRPC --> AntTP[AntTP Node]
    AntTP -- P2P --> Network[Autonomi Network]
```

## Usage

### Command Line Arguments

You can run AntFTP with the following arguments:

- `-a`, `--archive <ARCHIVE>`: The AntTP archive hash to use. (Default: `efdcdc93db39d5ffef254f9bb3e069fc6315a1054f20a8b00343629f7773663b`)
- `-p`, `--pointer-name <POINTER_NAME>`: Optional pointer name to resolve the archive address from AntTP.
- `-l`, `--listen-address <LISTEN_ADDRESS>`: The address and port the FTP server will listen on. (Default: `127.0.0.1:2121`)

Example:
```bash
./antftp --archive <your-archive-hash> --listen-address 127.0.0.1:2121
```

### Environment Variables

- `ANTTP_GRPC_ENDPOINT`: The gRPC endpoint of the AntTP node. (Default: `http://localhost:18887`)

## Connecting with an FTP Client

You can use any standard FTP CLI client to connect to AntFTP.

### Using standard `ftp` client:

1. Connect to the server:
   ```bash
   ftp 127.0.0.1 2121
   ```
2. When prompted for a user, you can use any name (e.g., `anonymous`) as authentication is currently handled by the AntTP archive permissions.
3. You can now use standard FTP commands like `ls`, `get`, `put`, etc.

## FUSE Mount with Rclone

You can use `rclone` to mount an AntTP archive as a local file system via AntFTP.

1. **Configure Rclone**:
   Add a new FTP remote in `rclone`:
   ```bash
   rclone config
   ```
   - Name: `anttp`
   - Type: `ftp`
   - Host: `127.0.0.1`
   - User: `anonymous`
   - Port: `2121`

2. **Mount the Archive**:
   ```bash
   mkdir ~/mnt/anttp
   rclone mount anttp: ~/mnt/anttp --vfs-cache-mode full
   ```

Now you can browse your AntTP archive as if it were a local directory.

## Limitations

Currently, AntFTP asks AntTP to store files to disk, rather than Autonomi network. In a future release, AntTP will
be instructed to sync files from disk to the network. This allows many changes to be performed iteratively without
requiring a full sync.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add logging and improve documentation for issue #24

README.md, after:

# AntFTP

AntFTP is an FTP server skeleton designed to bridge FTP commands to **AntTP** via gRPC and Protobuf. It allows users to access AntTP archives using standard FTP clients.

## Features

- **AntTP Integration**: Directly interacts with AntTP archives using gRPC.
- **Pointer Support**: Can resolve archive addresses via AntTP pointers.
- **Rclone Compatibility**: Works seamlessly with `rclone` to provide a FUSE mount over FTP.

## Design

AntFTP acts as a proxy between the FTP protocol and the AntTP gRPC interface. It uses `libunftp` as the core FTP engine and implements a custom storage backend (`unftp-sbe-anttp`) that translates file operations into gRPC calls to an AntTP node.

```mermaid
graph LR
    Client[FTP Client] -- FTP --> AntFTP
    AntFTP -- gRPC --> AntTP[AntTP Node]
    AntTP -- P2P --> Network[Autonomi Network]
```

## Usage

### Command Line Arguments

You can run AntFTP with the following arguments:

- `-a`, `--archive <ARCHIVE>`: The AntTP archive hash to use. (Default: `efdcdc93db39d5ffef254f9bb3e069fc6315a1054f20a8b00343629f7773663b`)
- `-p`, `--pointer-name <POINTER_NAME>`: Optional pointer name to resolve the archive address from AntTP.
- `-l`, `--listen-address <LISTEN_ADDRESS>`: The address and port the FTP server will listen on. (Default: `127.0.0.1:2121`)
- `-n`, `--network-sync-timer <MINUTES>`: Network sync interval in minutes. Only used when a pointer is provided. (Default: `10`)

### Network Syncing
When a pointer name is provided via `-p`, AntFTP periodically synchronizes the current archive state to the Autonomi network. The sync timer (`-n`) determines how often (in minutes) AntFTP checks if the archive has changed and pushes any updates to the network. This ensures that your data is eventually persisted to the decentralized network while allowing for fast, local-first iterations.

Example:
```bash
./antftp --archive <your-archive-hash> --listen-address 127.0.0.1:2121
```

### Environment Variables

- `ANTTP_GRPC_ENDPOINT`: The gRPC endpoint of the AntTP node. (Default: `http://localhost:18887`)

## Connecting with an FTP Client

You can use any standard FTP CLI client to connect to AntFTP.

### Using standard `ftp` client:

1. Connect to the server:
   ```bash
   ftp 127.0.0.1 2121
   ```
2. When prompted for a user, you can use any name (e.g., `anonymous`) as authentication is currently handled by the AntTP archive permissions.
3. You can now use standard FTP commands like `ls`, `get`, `put`, etc.

## FUSE Mount with Rclone

You can use `rclone` to mount an AntTP archive as a local file system via AntFTP.

1. **Configure Rclone**:
   Add a new FTP remote in `rclone`:
   ```bash
   rclone config
   ```
   - Name: `anttp`
   - Type: `ftp`
   - Host: `127.0.0.1`
   - User: `anonymous`
   - Port: `2121`

2. **Mount the Archive**:
   ```bash
   mkdir ~/mnt/anttp
   rclone mount anttp: ~/mnt/anttp --vfs-cache-mode full
   ```

Now you can browse your AntTP archive as if it were a local directory.

## Logging
AntFTP uses `env_logger` for logging. You can control the log level using the `RUST_LOG` environment variable.

Example:
```bash
RUST_LOG=info ./antftp
```
To see detailed FTP command logs, use `RUST_LOG=debug`.

## Limitations

Currently, AntFTP asks AntTP to store files to disk, rather than Autonomi network. In a future release, AntTP will
be instructed to sync files from disk to the network. This allows many changes to be performed iteratively without
requiring a full sync.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
